=head1 NAME

DBIish - a simple database interface for Rakudo Perl 6

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use v6;
    use DBIish;

    my $dbh = DBIish.connect("SQLite", :database<example-db.sqlite3>, :RaiseError);

    my $sth = $dbh.do(q:to/STATEMENT/);
        DROP TABLE nom
        STATEMENT

    $sth = $dbh.do(q:to/STATEMENT/);
        CREATE TABLE nom (
            name        varchar(4),
            description varchar(30),
            quantity    int,
            price       numeric(5,2)
        )
        STATEMENT

    $sth = $dbh.do(q:to/STATEMENT/);
        INSERT INTO nom (name, description, quantity, price)
        VALUES ( 'BUBH', 'Hot beef burrito', 1, 4.95 )
        STATEMENT

    $sth = $dbh.prepare(q:to/STATEMENT/);
        INSERT INTO nom (name, description, quantity, price)
        VALUES ( ?, ?, ?, ? )
        STATEMENT

    $sth.execute('TAFM', 'Mild fish taco', 1, 4.85);
    $sth.execute('BEOM', 'Medium size orange juice', 2, 1.20);

    $sth = $dbh.prepare(q:to/STATEMENT/);
        SELECT name, description, quantity, price, quantity*price AS amount
        FROM nom
        STATEMENT

    $sth.execute();

    my $arrayref = $sth.fetchall_arrayref();
    say $arrayref.elems; # 3

    $sth.finish;

    $dbh.disconnect;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The DBIish project provides a simple database interface for Perl 6.

It's not a port of the Perl 5 DBI and does not intend to become one.
It is, however, a simple and useful database interface for Perl 6 that works
now. It looks like a DBI, and it talks like a DBI (although it only offers
a subset of the functionality).

It is based on Martin Berends' MiniDBI project, but unlike MiniDBI, DBDish
aims to provide an interface that takes advantage of Perl 6 idioms

Unlike Perl 5's DBI, it provides a C<fetchrow_typedhash> method on
DBD::StatementHandle that returns a hash with Perl6 typed value (works
only with Pg for now).

=head1 INSTALLATION

    $ panda install DBIish

=head1 DBDish CLASSES

Until there is a benefit in doing it otherwise, the DBDish drivers stay
and install together with the main DBIish.pm6 in a single project.

Currently the following backends are supported

=head2 Pg (Postgresql)

Supports basic CRUD operations and prepared statements with placeholders

    my $dbh = DBIish.connect('Pg', :host<db01.yourdomain.com>, :port(5432),
            :database<blerg>, :user<myuser>, :$password);
            
=head2 SQLite

Supports basic CRUD operations and prepared statements with placeholders

    my $dbh = DBIish.connect('SQLite', :database<thefile.sqlite3>);

=head2 mysql

Supports basic CRUD operations. Emulates prepared statements by escaping
and interpolating strings.

    my $dbh = DBIish.connect('mysql', :host<db02.yourdomain.com>, :port(3306),
            :database<blerg>, :user<myuser>, :$password);
    # Or via socket:
    my $dbh = DBIish.connect('mysql', :socket<mysql.sock>,
            :database<blerg>, :user<myuser>, :$password);

=head1 TESTING

The initial test script is merely a concatenation of all the scripts in
the Perl 5 DBD::mysql test suite, translated to Perl 6.  It's not
efficient but indispensable to assess coverage of the existing DBI
feature set.  Only about 15% of the suite has been converted so far,
with 86 tests passing, 0 todo and 0 skipped.

The test suite will change to eliminate the current slowness and
redundancy.  It will contain general tests as well as tests for
particular databases.  The aim is to make the suite demonstrate portable
and non portable operations.

=head1 ROADMAP

Add some more drivers. Improve robustness of all drivers. Improve the test suite.  Attract more contributors.

Integrate with the DBDI project (L<http://github.com/timbunce/DBDI>)
once it has sufficient functionality.


=head1 SEE ALSO

The Perl 6 Pod in the L<doc:DBIish> module.
The Perl 5 L<doc:DBI> and L<doc:DBI::DBD>.

This README and the documention of the DBIish and the DBDish modules
are in the Pod6 format. It can be extracted by running

    perl6 --doc <filename>

Or, if L<Pod::To::HTML> is installed,

    perl6 --doc=html <filename>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Written by Moritz Lenz, based on the MiniDBI code by Martin Berends.

See the F<CREDITS> file for a list of all contributors.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2009-2012, the DBIish contributors
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY
WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
